# COMIT Website & Developer Hub

This website is built using [Docusaurus 2](https://v2.docusaurus.io/), a modern static website generator.

> This guide outlines how you can contribute by adding pages and updating the COMIT developer hub.

## Installation and Setup

First, fork [the website](https://github.com/comit-network/comit.network) on Github. Then, clone it on your machine:

```
git clone git@github.com:<your-username>/comit.network.git
cd comit.network
npm install
```

Run the website locally by running `npm run start`. It should open the site on your browser.

## Project Structure

The `comit.network` directory has the following structure:

```
docs/
|- getting-started/
|- core-concepts/
  |- atomic-swaps.md
|- tutorials/
  |- how-to-write-your-comit-app.md
|- tools/
  |- comit-js-sdk
    |- v1.0.0 (Autogenerated by documentation.js)
```

Each page on the site is a Markdown `.md` file. You can write content using [GitHub-flavored Markdown syntax](https://github.github.com/gfm/).

## Adding a New Page

Create a Markdown file (e.g. `hello.md`) in the `docs/` folder:

```
id: hello
title: Hello World
---
My new content here..
```

New markdown files within docs will show up as pages on the website. Links to those documents are created first by using the `id` in the header of each document. If there is no `id` field, then **the name of the file** will serve as the link name.

> Note that placing a Markdown file in a subdirectory will add a subpath for that page's URL. For example, the Markdown file `docs/core-concepts/atomic-swaps.md` will be mapped to `localhost:3000/docs/core-concepts/atomic-swaps`.

## Adding a Page to the Sidebar

Many times, you will want to [add a document to a sidebar](https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/navigation#adding-documents-to-a-sidebar) that will be associated with one of the headers in the top navigation bar of the website.

Within sidebars.json, add the id you used in the document header to existing sidebar/category. In the below case, docs is the name of the sidebar and Getting Started is a category within the sidebar.

```
{
  "docs": {
    "Getting Started": [
      "getting-started"
    ],
    ...
  },
  ...
}
```

## Advanced Usage

For more information, check out the [Docusaurus documentation](https://docusaurus.io/docs/).